# Introduction
## What is an operating system?
1. Referee: Operating system isolate applications from each other,so a bug in one application does not corrupt other applications running on the same machine.And since applications share physical resources, the operating system needs to decide which applications get which resources and when.
2. Illusionist: Operating system provide an abstraction of physical hardware,provide illusion of nearly infinite memory and the illusion that each program has the computer processors entirely to itself.(applications are written to a higher level of abstraction,the operating system can invisibly change the amount resources to each application).
3. Glue: Operating system provide a set of common services that facilitate sharing among applications which let different programs work together and share information,like files and data even if created by different programs.And operating system provide a layer between applications and hardware devices so that they can work on any computer as long as the operating system is the same.  

In summary,operating system help applications work together,provide a consistent user experience,and make if easer for programs to run on different computers and without worrying about the specific hardware details.

### Resources sharing:Operating system as a referee
Sharing resources if needed in most uses of computer(let the operating system run multiple applications in same time),but sharing raises several challenges for operating system.
1. Resource allocation:Because of infinite amount of memory,network bandwidth and disk space,it is important to figure out how to allocate the resources to each applications appropriately for best performance.  
If an application runs an infinite loop:  
Physical machine(run directly on raw hardware):lock up the computer,completely non-responsive to user input.  
Abstract machine(ensure each program gets its own slices of the computer's resources):this application may lock up,others could proceed unimpeded.  
2. Isolation:An error in one application should not disrupt other applications,or even operating system itself(fault isolation).Operating system should provide a way for a malicious attacker to surreptitiously install a computer virus from anywhere or any applications.
3. Communications:An operating system must also allow those boundaries to be crossed in carefully controlled ways when the need arises.  

In its role of referee,it balances needs, separates conflicts, and facilitates sharing.One user should not be allowed to monopolize system resources or to access or corrupt another user’s files without permission; a buggy application should not be able to crash the operating system or other unrelated applications; and yet, applications must also work together. Enforcing and balancing these concerns is a central role of the operating system.
### Masking Limitations: Operating System as Illusionist
A second important role of an operating system is to mask the restrictions inherent in computer hardware.  
Virtualization provides an application with the illusion of resources that are not physically present.Some operating systems virtualize the entire computer, running the operating system as an application on top of another operating system(called creating a virtual machine).Virtual machines also aid debugging. If an operating system can be run as an application, then its developers can set breakpoints, stop the kernel, and single step their code just as they would when debugging an application.
### Providing Common Services: Operating System as Glue
Operating systems play a third key role: providing a set of common, standard services to applications to simplify and standardize their design. By abstracting the complexities of hardware, operating systems enable applications to focus on their core functions without concerning themselves with the underlying details of device management. This standardization also facilitates resource sharing among applications, ensuring consistent and efficient file handling, messaging, and memory sharing.
### Operating System Design Patterns
The challenges that operating systems address are not unique — they apply to many different computer domains.   
To avoid spreading our discussion too thinly, this book focuses on how operating systems work. Just as it is easier to learn a second computer programming language after you become fluent in the first, it is better to see how operating systems principles apply in one context before learning how they can be applied in other settings. We hope and expect, however, that you will be able to apply the concepts in this book more widely than just operating system design.  
The mindset of operating system can be used in many different computer domains!  
The most important thing is the abstract thought of 'referee,illusionist and glue'.

# Operating System Evaluation
Having defined what an operating system does,how should we choose among alternative designs?
- ***Reliability and Availability*** Does the operating system do what you want?
- ***Security*** Can the operating system be corrupted by an attacker?
- ***Portability*** Is the operating system easy to move to new hardware platforms?
- ***Performance*** Is the user interface responsive,or does the operating system impose too much overhead? 
- ***Adoption*** How many other users are there for this operating system?

## Reliability and Availability
Reliability means that a system does exactly what it is designed to do.  
A related concept is availability, the percentage of time that the system is usable.
Availability is affected by two factors: the frequency of failures, measured as the mean time to failure (***MTTF***), and the time it takes to restore a system to a working state after a failure (for example, to reboot), called the mean time to repair (***MTTR***). 
## Security
Two concepts closely related to reliability are security and privacy. ***Security*** means the computer’s operation cannot be compromised by a malicious attacker. ***Privacy*** is an aspect of security: data stored on the computer is only accessible to authorized users.  
An operating system needs both an enforcement mechanism and a security policy. ***Enforcement*** is how the operating system ensures that only permitted actions are allowed. The ***security policy*** defines what is permitted — who is allowed to access what data, and who can perform what operations.
## Portability
All operating systems provide applications with an abstraction of the underlying computer hardware; a ***portable*** abstraction is one that does not change as the hardware changes.
The ***abstract virtual machine (AVM)*** is the interface provided by operating systems to applications, including: (i) the application programming interface (API), the list of function calls the operating system provides to applications, (ii) the memory access model, and (iii) which instructions can be legally executed.  
This notion of a portable hardware abstraction is so powerful that operating systems use the same idea internally: the operating system itself can largely be implemented independently of the hardware specifics. The interface that makes this possible is called the ***hardware abstraction layer (HAL)***. 
## Performance
- Performance is not a single quantity. Rather, it can be measured in several different ways. One performance metric is the ***overhead***, the added resource cost of implementing an abstraction presented to applications. A related concept is ***efficiency***, the lack of overhead in an abstraction.  
- Operating systems also need to allocate resources among applications, and this can affect the performance of the system as perceived by the end user. One issue is ***fairness*** between different users or applications running on the same machine.   
- Two related concepts are response time and throughput. ***Response time***, sometimes called delay, is how long it takes for a single task to run, from the time it starts to the time it completes. ***Throughput*** is the rate at which the system completes tasks.  
- A related consideration is performance predictability: whether the system’s response time or other metric is consistent over time. ***Predictability*** can often be more important than average performance. 
## Adoption
In addition to reliability, portability and performance, the success of an operating system depends on two factors outside its immediate control: the wide availability of applications ported to that operating system, and the wide availability of hardware that the operating system can support.  
The ***network effect*** occurs when the value of some technology depends not only on its intrinsic capabilities, but also on the number of other people who have adopted it.  
A ***proprietary*** system is one under the control of a single company; it can be changed at any time by its provider to meet the needs of its customers. An ***open system*** is one where the system’s source code is public, giving anyone the ability to inspect and change the code.
## Designed Tradeoffs
Most practical operating system designs strike a balance between the goals of reliability, security, portability, performance, and adoption. 
# Exercises 
- What is an example of an operating system as:  
a. Referee?  
b. Illusionist?  
c. Glue?  
**A combination of referee,illusionist and glue.But the emphasis may be different in vary systems.**
- What is the difference, if any, between the following terms:  
a.Reliability vs. availability?  
**Reliability meas that a system does exactly what it is designed to do.Availability is percentage of time the system is usable.**  
b.Security vs. privacy?  
**Security means the computer's operation cannot be compromised by a malicious attacker.**  
**Privacy os an aspect of security:data stored on the computer is only accessible to authorized users.**  
c.Security enforcement vs. security policy?  
**Security enforcement is how the operation system ensures that only permitted actions are allowed.**  
**Security policy defines what is permitted - who is allowed to access what data, and who can  performed what operations.**  
d.Throughput vs. response time?  
**Throughput is the rate at which the system completes tasks.**  
**Response time,sometimes called delay,is how long it takes for a single task to run,from the time it starts to the time it completes.**  
e.Efficiency vs. overhead?  
**Efficiency, the lack of overhead in an abstraction.**  
**Overhead,one performance metric,the added resource cost of implementing an abstraction presented to application.**  
f.Application programming interface (API) vs. abstract virtual machine (AVM)?  
**API:the list of function calls the operating system provides to applications.**  
**AVM:This is the interface provided by operating systems to applications, including: (i) the application programming interface (API), the list of function calls the operating system provides to applications, (ii) the memory access model, and (iii) which instructions can be legally executed.**  
g.Abstract virtual machine (AVM) vs. hardware abstraction layer (HAL)?  
**The operating system itself can largely be implemented independently of the hardware specifics. The interface that makes this possible is called the hardware abstraction layer (HAL).**  
**both are portable layers designed to hide hardware details. The AVM must do more**  
h.Proprietary vs. open operating system?  
**Proprietary system is one under the control of a single company. it can be changed at any time by its provider to meet the needs of its customers.**  
**Open system is one where the system's source code is public, giving anyone the ability to inspect and change the code.**  
i.Batch vs. interactive operating system?  
**A batch operating system works on a queue of tasks. It runs a simple loop: load, run, and unload each job in turn.**  
**Time-sharing operating systems — such as Windows, MacOS, or Linux — are designed to support interactive use of the computer rather than the batch mode processing of earlier systems. With time-sharing, the user types input on a keyboard or other input device directly connected to the computer.(Could react immediately)**  
j.Host vs. guest operating system?  
**The host operating system, also called a virtual machine monitor, exports an abstract virtual machine (AVM) that is identical to the underlying hardware.**  
**A guest operating system running inside a virtual machine makes resource allocation and fault isolation decisions as if it were in complete control of its resources, even though it is sharing the system with other operating systems and applications.**  
- Define the term, direct memory access (DMA). 
- For the following questions, take a moment to speculate. We provide answers to these questions throughout the book, but, given what you know now, how would you answer them? Before there were operating systems, someone needed to develop solutions without being able to look them up! How would you have designed the first operating system?
**While one job is running, the operating system sets up the I/O devices to do background transfers for the next/previous job using a process called DMA.With DMA, the I/O device transfers its data directly into memory at a location specified by operating system.While the I/O transfer completes,the hardware interrupts the process,transferring the control to the operating system interrupt handler.The operating system starts the next DMA transfer and the resumes execution of the application.**